about the low level of support when, in these
restricted times, there's vastly more money
available than the old bailing wire and sealing
wax days at Lowell. Yeah. I mean, when I went to
Lowell, I mean, typical salary level, I don't
remember what I was paid, but it's less than we pay a
graduate student assistant coming in now
who's supposedly spending most of his time just
studying. so uh yeah and those of us who've held
positions for a long time i've been 30 years now or
going on 30 years at university of arizona our
salaries have fallen behind uh so it's called the
compression effect uh considerably behind uh new
appointees so it's only because well i've been in i
mean my house is paid for so i don't have to pay a big
mortgage and so in a sense i feel that i'm I can
afford to draw this salary, but
I think there's too much focus and too much
attention on short-term science, new people
coming in. They have to move very rapidly. You've
got to publish results very quickly, pick up, I
think, many, many superficial things. In-depth
science has suffered. And I don't think there's a
proper balance of support for deeper studies,
more controversial studies.
So I don't have a lot of sympathy for the complaints
of many of the younger scientists. I don't think
that's the
central problem that we face in astronomy. I think
we're overpopulated with astronomy, and I think
we're driven by to produce results quickly. I'm an
old-fashioned astronomer who believes that the
way Mount Wilson and places like that worked years
ago, where you could study a problem, think about
it, and publish a definitive analysis. I mean, the
kind of work that Merrill did and Joy and so on,
those I think, that's the way I still think there's
room for that kind of support in astronomy. And we
see very little of it. I want to ask you one general,
one specific question. The specific one is,
what's the reaction of people that you meet when
they find out you're an astronomer? Good, bad, and
different surprises? I think the general public
is well attuned to astronomy. And I don't think
we've ever had a problem selling astronomy
fundamentally, gee, there's a lot of
misunderstanding of what astronomy is, but I
think there's an automatic, fairly positive
reaction to astronomy because, gee, yeah, I mean,
it's telling us what's out there, and there's a
natural interest in that. I don't think there's
any problem at that level with getting an initial
positive reaction to astronomy. It's at the next
level when you start asking for money or
explaining how expensive it is to run this
business that people get a little puzzled. And
well, even then, well, just if you give us the
proper information or proper justification,
maybe we're not fundamentally objecting to it. I
think we have more problem internally in
astronomy in the way we've decided to allocate our
resources. And I can be perfectly honest in making
one of the strong comparisons I'm sure has been
made many times between the way say NRAO and NOAO
are run. NRAO is a real service institution that
really helps astronomers with individual ideas.
And it doesn't get any complaints either. Right.
It's a great institution. And the controversy
that revolves around NOAO, I'm not an authority on
that, but it's an entirely different situation.
But you live in Tucson, right?
That's the way things are funded now. I mean, if you
want to do a research program or do an observing
program or apply for a grant, you have got to say
exactly what you're going to do and exactly what
you're going to find. But of course, in the kind of
work that I do, you can't do that. I mean, we're
investigating a phenomena that we don't
understand. And historically, that's where the
major advances in science have come. I think if you
look at the history of science, and I'm no
authority on history of science like you are, Ron,
but... Not yet. It's not out of these big
institutions, necessarily, that the real
advances come, because the proposals are
reviewed in such microscopic detail that there
really isn't any question left. It's just
refining the next significant figure or
something like that. It's only the tenured
professors with some far-out idea or people that
are willing to take a big risk they can investigate
the unknown and take on an observing program or do
an observing program where they don't know what
they're gonna find because you can't write that
kind of proposal nobody's gonna fund it nobody's
gonna support it Galileo wouldn't stand a chance
today no I mean to build a telescope I mean
everybody knew what you're gonna see when you
looked at Jupiter or something It wasn't going to
have moon circling around it. There was nothing
unknown out there. So you can't write that kind of
proposal. And I think that's exactly the kind of
proposal that we need. The same is true for
publication. When you send a paper in to the
Astrophysical Journal or to a main journal, I've
had plenty of experience with this, where you try
to develop a new idea. or suggest a new
interpretation. If it's inconsistent with what
is, quote, presently known or presently being
modeled, you're going to meet immense
resistance. And to introduce a new or a different
idea is very, very difficult. You can't do it. I
can't work with graduate students or people that
future depend upon their being able to get a job
that having connection with TIFF is not wise. I can
do it because I've got tenure, because I've got
security, and because my salary is big enough that
my expenses aren't that big, I can afford to go to
the AAS meeting and have my own home computer and a
few computer programs so I can generate poster
papers, I can write papers. I may even end up having
to pick up some of my publication charges. There
aren't many people in a position to do that.
There's something wrong with the way science is
being supported and funded. I don't think we need a
lot of money for this, but I think there ought to be
means of handling new ideas. We ought to somehow
try to create a means of supporting new ideas based
upon just the experience with the people. People
know that I do good observational work.
There ought to be a means of supporting these kinds
of things. I'm not speaking specifically for
myself, but I know there are a lot of people out
there. I assume this criticism applies to NSF and
NASA together in that they are both unwilling to
take any chances whatsoever. Right. I mean,
Jocelyn Gill's office, for example, and this was
an aspect of the older NASA, was willing to take
this kind of risk in the Lunar Programs Lab and
Marshall Space Flight Center. They said, yeah. I
mean, sure, they were vested interest in this. But
on the other hand, there were no strings attached
to the support. They say, go out and build some good
programs that we can fly. Sure, they were
interested. They wanted programs developed. But
they gave the support to people who were motivated
to try something new. We don't see much of that now.
and this collecting of everybody into teams to do a
specific job, there's no flexibility. There's no
ability of the scientists to develop a completely
new idea. We've seen these plateaus in the history
of science frequently. Everything is known, and
all we've got to do is work out the next details. We
aren't any closer to the final answers than we were
We're in the 18th century, but a lot of people think
we are.